============================
pyFFTW v0.13.0 release notes
============================

We're happy to announce the release of pyFFTW v0.13.0!

pyFFTW is a pythonic wrapper around FFTW 3, the speedy FFT library. The
ultimate aim is to present a unified interface for all the possible transforms
that FFTW can perform.

pyFFTW implements the NumPy and SciPy FFT interfaces in order for users to take
advantage of the speed of FFTW with minimal code modifications. A Dask FFT
interface is provided as a drop-in replacement for the equivalent module in
dask. For more information, examples, and documentation, please see
the `documentation <https://pyfftw.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_.

A highlight of this release is the addition of real-to-real transforms,
specifically the type I-IV discrete sine and cosine transforms. These
transforms  are also available from the `pyfftw.interfaces.numpy_fft` and
`pyfftw.interfaces.scipy_fft` interfaces as well as the legacy
`pyfftw.interfaces.scipy_fftpack` interface.

The NumPy interfaces have also now been updated to support new normalization
options added in NumPy 1.20. The new 'backward' and 'forward' options are
described in the `NumPy docs <https://numpy.org/doc/1.20/reference/routines.fft.html#normalization>`_.

This release supports Python 3.7-3.10 on Windows, MacOS and Linux. For more
details on the architectures providing binary wheels on PyPI, see the
full `table of prebuilt wheels <https://github.com/pyFFTW/pyFFTW#wheels>`_.
Binary packages for new Apple M1 processors will be made available via
`conda-forge <https://conda-forge.org/>`_.


Pull requests for v0.13.0
*************************
- add pyproject.toml (#226)
- Real-to-real transforms (#256)
- Drop testing on Python 2.7 and 3.5 (#285)
- Minor doc changes to README (#305)
- Document PYFFTW_INCLUDE and PYFFTW_LIB_DIR (#311)
- Build wheels on GitHub Actions via cibuildwheel (#318)
- Fixed setup.py and working CI builds (#323)
- Update NumPy and SciPy interfaces with new norm options (take 2) (#330)
- CI: Added the correct gh actions badge and tweaked the name of the workflow (#331)
- CI: Improved badge to link to the actual workflow (#332)
- remove use of distutils (#333)
- Increase time allowed for cache clearance in test (#334)
- Increase timing in cache tests (#336)
- Fix miscellaneous typos (#337)


8 authors added to this release [alphabetical by first name or login]
---------------------------------------------------------------------
- Chris Val
- David Wells
- Gregory Lee
- Henry Gomersall
- Jeppe Klitgaard
- Jonathan Essen
- Pierre Augier
- Tim Gates


3 reviewers added to this release [alphabetical by first name or login]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
- Gregory Lee
- Henry Gomersall
- Jeppe Klitgaard
